Now let's talk about Amazon CloudWatch Logs,
so CloudWatch Logs, as the name indicates,
is to collect log files.
So what is a log file?
Well, when you have an application running
on any server, usually you want the application
to write some text about how it is doing.
For example, when it is doing some actions for a user
when it is performing some clean ups, et cetera, et cetera,
and so all these logs can be collected
and when a user needs to troubleshoot something,
then they will go through the log file
and see what the application did or said,
and so these logs can exist in different forms,
but you can collect the logs from Elastic Beanstalk.
You can collect the logs from ECS, Lambda, CloudTrail,
CloudWatch logs agents,
which is when you install a log agent
on an EC2 machine or an on-premise server
to get your log directly from that server onto AWS,
or Route53 for logging DNS queries,
and CloudWatch logs overall,
when they collect all these logs
it allows for real-time monitoring of your logs
and then with it you can react to whatever is happening
within your logs.
Also, your logs can be readjustable for the retention.
That means that you can have your logs,
for example, for just one week
or 30 days or a year or infinitely.
So how does CloudWatch Logs work for EC2 instances?
By default, your EC2 instances will not send any log files
to CloudWatch Logs.
For this you need to create a CloudWatch Log agent
on your EC2 instances,
and they will push the log files that you want
onto the CloudWatch Log service,
so to summarize, the CloudWatch Logs service is running.
Here's your EC2 instance.
We will install the CloudWatch Logs agent
and this agent will send the log files
directly into CloudWatch Logs.
For this to work we need to make sure that our EC2 instance
has a proper instance role with the correct IAM permissions
to send the log data into CloudWatch Logs.
Then, the log agent can also be setup on on-premises servers
as well, so this is a hybrid agent.
It works both on-premises or on AWS
and it allows you to collect logs
from both your EC2 instances and your on-premises servers
directly into the CloudWatch Log service,
so that's it.
Let's go in the next lecture
to see how CloudWatch Logs works.